# Baroclinic Gyres

The goal of this set of simulations is to investigate the role of the steepening of the continental shelf on the separation of a western boundary current in a subtropical gyre. Our focus is consider an idealized modeling scenario in order to focus in on this feature in the absence of variable forcing and interactions with deep currents. We propose a process modeling approach, starting with a classic flat-bottomed baroclinic gyre to compare against. This setup starts with a 10km resolution version of the MITgcm's example baroclinic gyre. We then adjust this flat-bottomed simulation to incorporate the DRAKAR-75 75 layer vertical grid. In a subsequent simulation series, we include an idealized continental shelf on the western boundary of the domain that exhibits no variation with latitude. In the last simulation, we introduce a steepening to the continental shelf at a point south of the zero wind stress curl line.  

The length scales and gradients of the continental shelves in the latter two experiments are chosen to be similar to those observed along the east coast U.S. seaboard. The continental slope function shape is taken from [Section 4.3.2 of Schoonover 2016](https://repository.lib.fsu.edu/islandora/object/fsu:360436/datastream/PDF/download). The static wind forcing is chosen to be symmetric about a central latitude, similar to classic baroclinic gyre simulations. Sources/sinks of heat are incorporated by relaxing the top layer of the ocean to a fixed temperature profile that varies with latitude only. The strength of the wind forcing and the magnitude of the temperature relaxation are chosen such that 